README.md, before:


# Svelte + TS + Vite

# start dfx

go to internet-identity project folder:
```bash
dfx start --background --clean --host=0.0.0.0:8000

II_ENV=development dfx deploy --no-wallet --argument '(null)'
```

open .dfx/local/canister_ids/json
and copy he internet_identity canister id
go through the following transformations:
```
http://{canisters.internet-identity.id}.localhost:8000/

http://rwlgt-iiaaa-aaaaa-aaaaa-cai.localhost:8000/

INTERNET_IDENTITY_URL=http://rwlgt-iiaaa-aaaaa-aaaaa-cai.localhost:8000/
```
paste the last line above into .env in this project

```
dfx deploy
```

This template should help get you started developing with Svelte and TypeScript in Vite.

## Recommended IDE Setup

[VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Svelte](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode).

## Need an official Svelte framework?

Check out [SvelteKit](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit#readme), which is also powered by Vite. Deploy anywhere with its serverless-first approach and adapt to various platforms, with out of the box support for TypeScript, SCSS, and Less, and easily-added support for mdsvex, GraphQL, PostCSS, Tailwind CSS, and more.

## Technical considerations

**Why use this over SvelteKit?**

- SvelteKit is still a work-in-progress.
- It currently does not support the pure-SPA use case.
- It brings its own routing solution which might not be preferable for some users.
- It is first and foremost a framework that just happens to use Vite under the hood, not a Vite app.
  `vite dev` and `vite build` wouldn't work in a SvelteKit environment, for example.

This template contains as little as possible to get started with Vite + TypeScript + Svelte, while taking into account the developer experience with regards to HMR and intellisense. It demonstrates capabilities on par with the other `create-app` templates and is a good starting point for beginners dipping their toes into a Vite + Svelte project.

Should you later need the extended capabilities and extensibility provided by SvelteKit, the template has been structured similarly to SvelteKit so that it is easy to migrate.

**Why `global.d.ts` instead of `compilerOptions.types` inside `jsconfig.json` or `tsconfig.json`?**

Setting `compilerOptions.types` shuts out all other types not explicitly listed in the configuration. Using triple-slash references keeps the default TypeScript setting of accepting type information from the entire workspace, while also adding `svelte` and `vite/client` type information.

**Why include `.vscode/extensions.json`?**

Other templates indirectly recommend extensions via the README, but this file allows VS Code to prompt the user to install the recommended extension upon opening the project.

**Why enable `allowJs` in the TS template?**

While `allowJs: false` would indeed prevent the use of `.js` files in the project, it does not prevent the use of JavaScript syntax in `.svelte` files. In addition, it would force `checkJs: false`, bringing the worst of both worlds: not being able to guarantee the entire codebase is TypeScript, and also having worse typechecking for the existing JavaScript. In addition, there are valid use cases in which a mixed codebase may be relevant.

**Why is HMR not preserving my local component state?**

HMR state preservation comes with a number of gotchas! It has been disabled by default in both `svelte-hmr` and `@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte` due to its often surprising behavior. You can read the details [here](https://github.com/rixo/svelte-hmr#svelte-hmr).

If you have state that's important to retain within a component, consider creating an external store which would not be replaced by HMR.

```ts
// store.ts
// An extremely simple external store
import { writable } from 'svelte/store'
export default writable(0)
```

Commit message:

Working login/logout functionality with DFINITY Internet Computer. Logging in with a new user shows "Please register", and with an existing user, shows existing account information

README.md, after:


# spencerneilan.com
## Written with svelte + typescript + vite

# start dfx Identity Server
You will need dfx. 
```
DFX_VERSION=0.7.0 sh -ci "$(curl -fsSL https://sdk.dfinity.org/install.sh)"

```

go to internet-identity project directory. You can get it from https://github.com/dfinity/internet-identity.git:
```bash
dfx start --background --clean --host=0.0.0.0:8000

II_ENV=development dfx deploy --no-wallet --argument '(null)'
```

open .dfx/local/canister_ids/json
and copy he internet_identity canister id
go through the following transformations:
```
http://{canisters.internet-identity.id}.localhost:8000/

http://rwlgt-iiaaa-aaaaa-aaaaa-cai.localhost:8000/

INTERNET_IDENTITY_URL=http://rwlgt-iiaaa-aaaaa-aaaaa-cai.localhost:8000/
```
paste the last line above into .env in this project

```
dfx deploy
```

This template should help get you started developing with Svelte and TypeScript in Vite.

## Recommended IDE Setup

[VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Svelte](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode).

## Need an official Svelte framework?

Check out [SvelteKit](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit#readme), which is also powered by Vite. Deploy anywhere with its serverless-first approach and adapt to various platforms, with out of the box support for TypeScript, SCSS, and Less, and easily-added support for mdsvex, GraphQL, PostCSS, Tailwind CSS, and more.

## Technical considerations

**Why use this over SvelteKit?**

- SvelteKit is still a work-in-progress.
- It currently does not support the pure-SPA use case.
- It brings its own routing solution which might not be preferable for some users.
- It is first and foremost a framework that just happens to use Vite under the hood, not a Vite app.
  `vite dev` and `vite build` wouldn't work in a SvelteKit environment, for example.

This template contains as little as possible to get started with Vite + TypeScript + Svelte, while taking into account the developer experience with regards to HMR and intellisense. It demonstrates capabilities on par with the other `create-app` templates and is a good starting point for beginners dipping their toes into a Vite + Svelte project.

Should you later need the extended capabilities and extensibility provided by SvelteKit, the template has been structured similarly to SvelteKit so that it is easy to migrate.

**Why `global.d.ts` instead of `compilerOptions.types` inside `jsconfig.json` or `tsconfig.json`?**

Setting `compilerOptions.types` shuts out all other types not explicitly listed in the configuration. Using triple-slash references keeps the default TypeScript setting of accepting type information from the entire workspace, while also adding `svelte` and `vite/client` type information.

**Why include `.vscode/extensions.json`?**

Other templates indirectly recommend extensions via the README, but this file allows VS Code to prompt the user to install the recommended extension upon opening the project.

**Why enable `allowJs` in the TS template?**

While `allowJs: false` would indeed prevent the use of `.js` files in the project, it does not prevent the use of JavaScript syntax in `.svelte` files. In addition, it would force `checkJs: false`, bringing the worst of both worlds: not being able to guarantee the entire codebase is TypeScript, and also having worse typechecking for the existing JavaScript. In addition, there are valid use cases in which a mixed codebase may be relevant.

**Why is HMR not preserving my local component state?**

HMR state preservation comes with a number of gotchas! It has been disabled by default in both `svelte-hmr` and `@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte` due to its often surprising behavior. You can read the details [here](https://github.com/rixo/svelte-hmr#svelte-hmr).

If you have state that's important to retain within a component, consider creating an external store which would not be replaced by HMR.

```ts
// store.ts
// An extremely simple external store
import { writable } from 'svelte/store'
export default writable(0)
```
